when we're young we tend to believe
things that authority figures have told
us in effect because we were taught to
believe them or else as we get older
already in your 20s and well into
middle-age we tend to instead accumulate
beliefs that are convenient to us that
are self-serving we start increasingly
to believe things for no other reason
other than that they are flattering to
our own egos and you have to develop a
new sort of skepticism a new sort of
self-doubt in examining those beliefs
and wondering how it is you ever came to
assume them to be useful or true the
myths surrounding language learning have
many many examples of this people become
deeply committed to self-serving excuses
and justifications about language
learning sometimes their own lack
thereof I used to live in Laos where I
was studying the Lao language wasn't
even my top priority to be honest with
you I met a lot of people in PhD
programs so people from European
universities and American universities
who flew to Laos
I met them while that were there doing
research then they flew out again went
back to University and many times they
had a conversation with me as follows
many times they said wow it's amazing
you learned to speak the language so
well we learned so much of the language
and you've only been here for one year
or you've only been studying the
language for one year whereas they back
in the university with a library and a
classroom and an exam schedule on a
chalkboard they back in their university
have been studying for many more years
and had accomplished less they would
attribute the difference between us to
the magic
of living an immersion it's convenient
and it's just not true
the truth is those people every single
one of them had advantages in life I
never had and I still will never have
they had advantages and they squandered
them waking up in a hut with no
electricity and shopping firewood in
order to boil lentils over a wood stove
does not help you learn a language
there's no magic
there's nothing exotic compared to being
in a Western University with access to a
library and a professor compared to
being in a situation in a Western
University where you can write a short
essay in the language you're studying
and give it to a language professor and
have them correct it and have them
explain to you the mistakes you have
them explain to you what what you what
you did wrong that is invaluable those
students and those PhD programs had an
unbelievable advantage over me and they
didn't want to face up to the extent to
which they were squandering it they were
throwing all those advantages away all
right the reason why I learned more of
the Lao language in one year than they
learned in four years or five years
whatever the situation was was that I
was hardworking and dedicated and they
weren't I met a man who today is a
professor with a PhD in Chinese
literature so he's a white Canadian and
his experience of learning Chinese
totally revolved around books and
libraries and exams in the university
system he also got married to a Chinese
woman and got divorced
he told me the story of how he met a
very different white man who learned
Chinese in a different way and how he
had so much admiration for this other
white man and how how astounded he was
by this other white man's level of
ability in speaking Chinese after just a
short time what did the other white man
do the other white man flew to Taiwan
and got a job as a male prostitute where
every day all day
he was standing around drinking alcohol
and chit-chatting with wealthy
middle-aged women in Chinese it's very
clear why this fantasy appeals to the
book bound desk-bound chalkboard bound
career academic it's very clear the way
in which this is kind of a self
justifying myth that somehow living and
working in immersion is this miraculous
substitute for all the hard work done at
the library but if you just pause and
reflect on it for a moment the type of
ability this guy would have developed as
a male prostitute he learned how to make
jokes in Chinese he learned how to laugh
at other people's jokes at just the
right moment he learned to be a little
bit witty and what-have-you but he
wouldn't have any of the ability in the
the written language or literary
language or he wouldn't none of this
could substitute for what you learn in
getting a PhD in Chinese language in
literature are you joking one isn't a
substitute for the other at all and
moreover if you really believe in this
if you really believe in this
glamorization of and glorification of
living in immersion why doesn't it work
when we remove the element of the exotic
why doesn't it work when we're talking
about a young woman from Russia or a
young woman from the Ukraine who flies
to Toronto and gets a job working as a
waitress and bartender
and she likewise spends all day everyday
chit-chatting with customers maybe
flirting and being flirted with many of
you watching this video will have met in
real life some women like this
good-looking Eastern European women who
somehow end up in these jobs as new
immigrants in the Western world how's
their English do they miraculously learn
English to a tremendously high level
today learn English to a PhD level by
standing around and having the same kind
of shallow chitchat and flirting every
day and maybe yelling at their boss
about washing the dishes or whatever
other conflicts exist in that workplace
all of a sudden this whole theory of how
living in immersion solves liberals it
seems less plausible when we remove the
element of the exotic when we've removed
the self-serving fantasy that the belief
is really based on I've known new
immigrants to Canada people who
immigrated to Canada from India people
who immigrated to Canada from China
people emigrated from Eastern Europe and
even from say spanish-speaking countries
like Brazil Mexico Nicaragua ok I've
known a lot of new immigrants to Canada
and some of these people they work in a
grocery store for example it used to be
a grocery store just around my house
just around the corner from my house in
Toronto I would see them twice a week
four years five years and when I first
met them at the grocery store they could
barely speak English they knew the
numbers the new hellogoodbye
they knew you know after living in
immersion for five years they still
don't speak English is this is this
exotic and shocking to you are we gonna
pretend it's just me I've encountered
this all over the world with people
living an immersion many many many times
I mean I've also encountered it with
white people who live in Asia for many
years and
never learn the Asian language or never
learned me on a very basic level of
asking where the bathroom is immersion
is in no way a magical substitute for
the aspects of language learning that
are offered and sold at a very high
price by universities by formal
organized education and the saddest and
sickest thing of all about this
glamorization of living and immersion is
that it's used within universities to
justify the poor quality of what the
university is offering at the University
of Victoria from the first day I got
there there were professors teaching
Chinese who said to me directly Oh will
you know one studying Chinese this way
in a classroom with a chalkboard it's
really just to waste your time what you
need to do is buy an airplane ticket and
go to Taiwan and live in in Perth they
were saying this to all the kids and
this was like to wave away really
serious problems with how language is
being taught really obvious serious
problems that I reported to the head of
the department to the head of the
faculty to the Ombudsman it eventually
went to Parliament this complaint and
the head of the department did privately
meet with me and admit to me months
after I did the initial paperwork he
admitted to me that I was right that I
had really raised serious concerns about
how badly the Chinese language is being
taught in the department right just
don't worry about it I mean you know all
this classroom exam chalkboards oh it's
all waste your time what you really need
is this magical experience of living an
immersion meanwhile were surrounded by
counter-examples
very real empirical examples to the
contrary right there in that same
University and in that same university
department at the University of Victoria
there are professors who have been
living in the United States and Canada
for more than 10 years they're their
immigrants but they've been there for
more than 10 years living in immersion
they still cannot speak English
correctly they make errors in vowel
pronunciation
in a consonant pronunciation in grammar
in every single sentence there were
professors speaking broken English
professors who never became fluent never
even became good at speaking the English
language after living in immersion for
ten years and these are people who had a
highly paid job not as a waitress not as
a not as a prostitute and also not
standing around in a in a grocery store
they're being paid to do a job that
involves face-to-face communication with
students delivering lectures and even
grading and evaluating essays written in
the English language but I meet a lot of
those people they're living an immersion
with all that input all that exposure to
language after 10 years they still can't
really speak English so the myth of
immersion is self serving in more ways
than one it lets us evade really serious
questions of personal responsibility the
personal responsibility of the student
like if you were in a ph.d program for
all those years
why didn't you learn more pally pally as
a different language
why didn't you learn more Pali that I
managed to teach myself with no teacher
no textbook no library no help me
sitting alone in my cabin in a
third-world country
I had no advantages being in this
third-world context in studying the Pali
language somebody who was at you know
Oxford or Cambridge or of any decent
University had all kinds of advantages
including just encouragement and
supervision from professors who
hopefully no more pathway than they do
maybe not till if you are reflecting on
why I learned more lotion than you
learned in now Chinese for the last
several years the main language I've
been learning is Chinese if you are
reflecting on that you can't blame the
institution and glamorize living it in
immersion to justify this difference and
then the professors for their part they
have to stop glamorizing living an
immersion in their own
mine's because this ends up in a really
sort of sick and insincere way
justifying their own lack of interest in
achieving standards of excellence in
language teaching or in trying to assure
that their own students have achieved
levels of adequacy in verbal
communication I can argue against my own
position okay I can I can put in a
footnote here and now put in what I
think is the most powerful
counter-argument and that is this even
though the power of living and immersion
is completely illusory to some people
that illusion is motivating and
motivating is always the hardest thing
to quantify in philosophy of Education
and in language learning in particular
okay the exotic motivates people to do
silly things on their vacation that they
would never do in their home country the
exotic makes people highly motivated to
work in a coffee shop in Italy one they
wouldn't want to have a job in a coffee
shop in the city they grew up in in New
Jersey or something you know the sense
of the exotic makes people imagine
that'll be tremendously rewarding for
them to accept a really denigrating
repetitive job in Japan the moment they
finish their university education and
that same job would be of no interest to
them if it were in the same city they
grew up in in Ohio in Hoboken whatever
unglamorous unexhausted example you want
to give and the exotic the experience of
walking down a street and seeing neon
signs in a language you can understand
the experience of having members of the
opposite sex flirt with you or members
of the same sex that you prefer flirt
with you in a language you're strolling
to understand yes for some people that's
a powerful motivating force but
we must recognize by the same token that
it is complete and it is in no
way a substitute for having a vocabulary
list and having a date on a calendar and
when the calendar gets to that date you
must have all of those words memorized
to sit down in a classroom and write an
exam that's a powerful motivating force
for language learning and then you find
out whether or not you succeeded in
memorizing that vocabulary whether or
not you can use it in the exam there is
no way any of these immersion
experiences can ever be a substitute for
writing an essay composition in the
language you're trying to learn giving
it to an expert having that expert
circle the mistakes you made and then
sit down and patiently explain to you
what it is you're doing wrong you won't
get that working at a grocery store you
won't get that hanging around
chit-chatting in bars you won't get that
from the ambience of walking in a Street
full of neon signs in a strange language
you can't understand you certainly won't
get that from flirting or romance we
have to discard the exotic is a ssin of
living in language immersion